{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Summer Research Plan Draft 0.2\
\
- Formulate blog post researching the work of the MIT Human Dynamics Lab. I would like to sit down with members of the lab and formulate blog posts relating to the legal dimensions of big data and specific MIT Human Dynamics lab projects. This specific project requires insight into the work of the graduate students as well as Prof. Alex "Sandy" Pentland. The goal will be for the Human Dynamics Lab to provide me with research materials and results with which I can provision and publish blog posts journalling their work and presenting it in plain language for the nontechnical reader. Ideally, I would like to establish a direct line of communication with Sandy through which I will ask him very refined questions. This will provide the project with an authoritative source to confirm the information being published and give it deeper dimensions. \
\
- My second intended plan of research is a media project under the MIT Center for Civic Media. I would like to publish blog posts on the technologies developed by this group to promote the production and accessibility of civic media. \
\
- A third research opportunity includes learning XML in detail so that I can better mark law into code. }